# ;; -*- mode: org; coding: utf-8 -*-

#+TITLE: Guile-Lib NEWS

* July 2018

Guile-Lib version 0.2.6.1 is released.

** Changes since 0.2.6

Here is a summary of the changes since version 0.2.6. See Guile-Lib's
[[http://git.savannah.nongnu.org/cgit/guile-lib.git][git summary]] and [[http://git.savannah.nongnu.org/cgit/guile-lib.git/log/][git log]] for a complete description.

*** Configure step improved

Explicitly using $prefix/share and $prefix/lib to define sitedir and
siteccachedir avoid relative (unsubstituted) output which is a lot
clearer for users.

Then I also improved the configure step message and the warning when
--with-guile-site="no".

*** Variables removed in Guile-Lib's pkg-config file

Thanks to the above changes, there is no need to list exec_prefix and
datarootdir in guile-lib-1.0.pc anymore.


* June 2018

Guile-Lib version 0.2.6 is released.  This is a maintenance release,
fixing the default installation locations, and adding a new configure
option - see below for a complete description of these changes.

** Changes since 0.2.5.1

Here is a summary of the changes since version 0.1.2. See Guile-Lib's
[[http://git.savannah.nongnu.org/cgit/guile-lib.git][git summary]] and [[http://git.savannah.nongnu.org/cgit/guile-lib.git/log/][git log]] for a complete description.

*** Installation location changes

The default and --prefix installation locations for source modules and
compiled files has been changed, and, in the absence of the new
configure option described below, are now:

  $(datadir)/guile-lib
  $(libdir)/guile-lib/guile/$(GUILE_EFFECTIVE_VERSION)/site-ccache

In the above, $(datadir) is substituted to the default /usr/local/share
or /your/prefix/share and $(libdir) is substituted to /usr/local/lib or
/your/prefix/lib, when/if --prefix was passed.

$(GUILE_EFFECTIVE_VERSION) is substituted to the stable version number
with which Guile-Lib is being compile, for example, 2.2

This change makes Guile-Lib compatible with the GNU Coding Standards,
but it also implies that, unless you use the new configure option
describe below, you will have to augment both Guile's variables
%load-path and %load-compiled-pat (see 'Environment Variables'
in Guile's Reference Manual) before to use Guile-Lib's modules.

*** New configure option

The configure option --with-guile-site has been added, used to
explicitly ask Guile-Lib's source modules and compiled files to be
installed using Guile's global site and site-ccache directories
respectively.

It will only be honored if (and only if) it is passed as:

  --with-guile-site=yes

  [ in this case, there is obviously no need to augment Guile's
  [ variables %load-path and %load-compiled-path

The configure step now lists the following variables: prefix,
exec_prefix, datarootdir, sitedir and siteccachedir.  It will also warn
the user if the last two variables differ from Guile's site and
site-ccache values.


* Guile-Lib 0.2.5.1 -- 2017-06-02

This is a maintenance release, the next maintenance release for the
Guile-Lib 0.2 series.

** Changes since version 0.2.5

Note that is actually not a user visible change, but the change is
important enough to trigger a release.

The new guile.m4 autoconf macros have been patched to solve a problem
with respect to Guile's major version checks, now allowing prereleases
of Guile with a new major version.

  
* Guile-Lib 0.2.5 -- 2017-01-17

This is a maintenance release, the next maintenance release for the
Guile-Lib 0.2 series.

** (unit-test) 2 new APIs

  Prodedure: assert-false expr
  Special Form: assert expr

  assert-false will throw a 'test-failed-exception unless the evaluation
  of expr returns #f.

  assert will throw a 'test-failed-exception if expr raises an
  exception.


* Guile-Lib 0.2.4 -- 2016-11-14

This is a maintenance release, the next maintenance release for the
Guile-Lib 0.2 series.

** Bug fixes
	
  (unit-test)

	assert-numeric-= 'test-failed-exception report message was
	inadequate and has been fixed.
	
  Do not check what is not installed

	starting with Guile-2.0, some Guile-Lib modules became Guile
	core modules, and not installed.  However, we all forgot to
	adapt the test-suite so it does not check for these not instlled
	modules anymore, fixed.

  Install source files first

    	Make sure source files are installed first, so that the mtime of
        installed compiled files is greater than that of installed
        source files, in order to avoid a rather annoying local
        (per-user) recompilation of Guile-Lib modules.


* Guile-Lib 0.2.3 -- 2016-09-19

This is a maintenance release, source code is unchanged compare to the
previous release.  This release introduces a Guile-Lib-1.0.pc, so libs
and apps that needs Guile-Lib may now use pkgconfig to check if it's
available, what version.

Note that starting with this release, the installation location for
modules and compiled files has changed: make sure you uninstall any
previous version of Guile-Lib.

** Dependencies bumped:

	Autogen  >= 2.69
	Automake >= 1.14
	Guile    >= 2.0.12

** Modules installation location changed:

	from $(prefix)/share/guile/site
	to $(GUILE_GLOBAL_SITE)

  You will need write privileges to this directory to install
  Guile-Lib. You may check its location using the folowing command:

	guile -c "(display (%global-site-dir)) (newline)"

** Compiled files installation location changed:

	from $(prefix)/share/guile/site
	to $(GUILE_SITE_CCACHE)

  You will need write privileges to this directory to install
  Guile-Lib. You may check its location using the folowing command:

	guile -c "(display (%site-ccache-dir)) (newline)"


* Guile-Lib 0.2.2 -- 2013-01-31

** Install (texinfo nodal-tree) for Guile 2.0.

** MD5 bugfixes.

** Better errors in Apicheck.


* Guile-Lib 0.2.1 -- 2011-04-03

** Updates for Guile 1.8.

Some of the compatibility hacks from 0.2.0 broke Guile-Lib on Guile
1.8.  Thanks to Andreas Rottmann for the various fixes.


* Guile-Lib 0.2.0 -- 2011-03-26

** Updates for Guile 2.0.

When compiled against Guile 2.0, Guile-Lib no longer installs modules
that have been included in the Guile distribution.  This is an
incompatible change: if you build Guile-Lib against Guile 2.0 and then
use it against 1.8, you will be missing `(sxml simple)' and the other
modules that were incorporated in Guile 2.0.

That said, Guile 2.0 is appoximately 7.1 times as awesome as Guile 1.8,
so you should stop worrying and learn to love it.


* Guile-Lib 0.1.9 -- 2010-08-29

** Updates for Guile 2.0.

Guile 2.0 has incorporated many modules from Guile-Lib, but all the same
we have to make sure that one Guile-Lib installation works fine with 1.8
and 2.0.

** The default SSAX parser no longer drops whitespace.

We used to drop extraneous whitespace when using the default XML parser,
but strictly speaking, this loses information. Guile-Lib now preserves
whitespace in the resulting SXML.

** SSAX supports UTF-8 output on Guile 1.8.

Guile 1.8 naively treats characters as bytes, not understanding
unicode. Still sometimes it's useful to emit UTF-8 sequences in Guile
1.8, which is what this SSAX does. Note that Guile 2.0 includes its own
SSAX, and handles unicode natively.

** Expose ssax:predefined-parsed-entities

Allows the user to define &foo; XML entities.

** License changed to GPL and LGPL, version 3 or later.

See the specific modules for their licenses.

** Removed modules: (math rationalize), (scheme session), SRFIs 34,35,40

Guile 1.8 and above support rationalize natively. The improvements in
(scheme session) are in Guile now, as are SRFIs 34 and 35. SRFI 40 is
withdrawn, in favor of SRFI 41.

** Removed module (container queue)

Use (ice-9 q) instead.

** Call tree analysis in statprof

Statprof can save away the various call trees that it samples for later
analysis. See the statprof documentation, for more information.


* Guile-Lib 0.1.6 -- 2007-09-24

** New module: (apicheck).

Apicheck implements one function to describe a set of modules' API as an
s-expression, and another to verify the s-expression against the current
API.

** New module: (sxml fold).

(sxml fold) defines a number of fold-based XML transformation operators.

** Improved support for parsing Texinfo.

(texinfo) now parses the arguments of the @deffnx family of commands.
Added support for parsing the inline commands @b, @i, @r, @sansserif,
@slanted, @t, and @tie.

** Better automatic documentation via (texinfo reflection).

Generic functions are now documented along with all of their methods.
Documentation for methods is now taken from their procedure
implementation.

Documentation produced with `module-stexi-documentation' may now be
filtered or elided via a user-supplied procedure. This allows procedures
defined in C to have their documentation supplied from a source that is
not a docstring or an object property, for example from docs snarfed
from the C source, or from docs written in a separate texinfo file.

Procedures documented by `module-stexi-documentation' are now ordered in
the order in which they appear in the module's export list, if it is
possible to obtain this information.

** Limited support for transforming Docbook to Texinfo.

(texinfo docbook) defines procedures for parsing docbook into SXML,
flattening that SXML into a form more like STEXI, and a stylesheet for
transforming a limited subset of that SXML into STEXI. The stylesheet
may be extended by user code in order to support more docbook elements.

** Guile-Lib now has API regression tests.

Using Apicheck, we now know the exact interface exported by Guile-Lib,
so that there will be no unintentional breakages in the future.

** Bugfixes

See the ChangeLog for details on fixes to (sxml ssax input-parse) and
(string wrap).


* Guile-Lib 0.1.5 -- 2007-08-09

** New module (container async-queue).

(container async-queue) implements a simple thread-safe message queue.

** Fixes for Guile 1.8

READ-LINE is now in (ice-9 rdelim) instead of the core; Guile-Lib has
been updated accordingly.


* Guile-Lib 0.1.4 -- 2007-07-20

** First release with NEWS.

** New module (match-bind).

(match-bind) implements a syntax to bind lexical variables to regular
expression match results. (match-bind) also exports two procedures, s///
and s///g, that perform search-and-replace with a perl-like syntax.

** New module (scheme kwargs).

Two new macros are exported, lambda/kwargs and define/kwargs, which
implement keyword and optional function arguments in a manner that is
more intuitive than Guile's standard lambda*.

** Other bugfixes and improvements.

See the ChangeLog for details on changes to (texinfo serialize),
(texinfo html), (texinfo), and (sxml simple).


Copyright (C) 2007,2010,2011 Andy Wingo <wingo at pobox dot com>

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.
